+++
title = "The Presentation Effect on Graphical Passwords"
date = "2014-05-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Julie Thorpe", "Muath Al-Badawi", "Brent MacRae", "Amirali Salehi-Abari"]


# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI'14)*."
publication_short = "In *ACM CHI*"



# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

abstract = "We provide a simple yet powerful demonstration of how an unobtrusive change to a graphical password interface can modify the distribution of user chosen passwords, and thus possibly the security it provides. The only change to the interface is how the background image is presented to the user in the password creation phase—we call the effect of this change the “presentation effect”. We demonstrate the presentation effect by performing a comparative user study of two groups using the same background image, where the image is presented in two different ways prior to password creation. Our results show a statistically different distribution of user’s graphical passwords, with no observed usability consequences."

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["Authentication_Systems"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "files/pdfs/presentation-effect-gps.pdf"
#url_preprint = ""
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
