+++
title = "Group Recommendation with Noisy Subjective Preferences"
date = "2020-08-28"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Amirali Salehi-Abari", "Kate Larson"]


# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Computational Intelligence (2020)*."
publication_short = "In *CI*"



# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

abstract = "Social choice theory provides a principled framework for the aggregation of individuals' preferences in support of group decision-making and recommendation.  Much of this work, however, either assumes that individuals' subjective preferences (and thus, their votes) are correctly specified by the individuals themselves, or alternatively that the votes of individuals are  noisy estimates of some underlying ground truth over rankings of alternatives.  We argue that neither model appropriately addresses some of the issues which arise in the context of group-recommendation domains where individuals have subjective preferences but for some reason (e.g., the high cognitive burden, concerns about privacy, etc.) may instead vote using a noisy estimate of their subjective preference rankings. In this paper, we propose a general probabilistic framework for modeling noisy subjective preferences, and explore the accuracy and reliability of four well-studied voting rules under various noise models. Our results demonstrate that there is no single reliable method amongst the examined methods. Specifically, we observe the change in noise distribution can flip one method from being the most reliable to the least."

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["Group-Decision"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "files/pdfs/GroupRec_Noise_2020.pdf"
#url_preprint = ""
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "arXiv", url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.01657"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
