+++
title = "Purely Automated Attacks on PassPoints-Style Graphical Passwords"
date = "2010-01-01"


# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["P.C. van Oorschot", "Amirali Salehi-Abari", "Julie Thorpe"]


# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security*."
publication_short = "In *IEEE TIFS*"



# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

abstract = "We introduce and evaluate various methods for purely automated attacks against PassPoints-style graphical passwords. For generating these attacks, we introduce a graph-based algorithm to efficiently create dictionaries based on heuristics such as click-order patterns (e.g., $5$ points all along a line). Some of our methods combine click-order heuristics with focus-of-attention scan-paths generated from a computational model of visual attention, yielding significantly better automated attacks than previous work. One resulting automated attack finds $7$-$16\\%$ of passwords for two representative images using dictionaries of approximately $2^{26}$ entries (where the full password space is $2^{43}$). Relaxing click-order patterns substantially increased the attack efficacy albeit with larger dictionaries of approximately $2^{35}$ entries, allowing attacks that guessed $48$-$54\\%$ of passwords (compared to previous results of $1\\%$ and $9\\%$ on the same dataset for two images with $2^{35}$ guesses). These latter attacks are independent of focus-of-attention models, and are based on image independent guessing patterns. Our results show that automated attacks, which are easier to arrange than human-seeded attacks and are more scalable to systems that use multiple images, pose a significant threat to basic PassPoints-style graphical passwords."

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["Authentication_Systems"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "files/pdfs/IEEE_Attacks_PassPoints_Graphical_Passwords.pdf"
#url_preprint = ""
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"



# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
